2.6.0 Release notes (#950)
portworx/pxdocs: content/reference/release-notes/portworx.md

series: release-notes
---

## 2.6.0

August 25, 2020

### New features

* Announcing guest (public) role access: the guest role allows your users to access and manipulate public volumes.

> * Portworx now features K3s support: Deploy Portworx on the K3s distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Portworx now features K3s support: deploy Portworx on the K3s distribution.
```

* Check out proxy volumes (NFS): use this feature to proxy an external NFS share onto your volumes.

> * Introducing automatic cluster wide capacity distribution and balancing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Introducing automatic cluster-wide capacity distribution and balancing. 
```

### Improvements

Portworx has upgraded or enhanced functionality in the following areas:

| **Improvement Number** | **Improvement Description** |
|----|----|
| PWX-12620 | Added support for the [K3s](https://k3s.io) Kubernetes distribution. <br> Limitation: you must use CSI integration to generate / use PVCs. |
| PWX-12587 | Renamed two Prometheus metrics for the floating license server:  <ul><li>`px_alerts_license_lease_has_expired_total` is now `px_alerts_licenseleaseexpired_total`</li><li>`px_alerts_license_leases_expiring_total` is now `px_alerts_licenseleaseexpiring_total`</li></ul> |
| PWX-12477 | Added a new `pxctl` command for rebalancing storage pools. To see the syntax, use `pxctl service pool rebalance --help`. |
| PWX-14465 | When a KVDB node is offline, if there are both storageless and storage nodes available to failover and no nodes are marked as metadata-nodes, Portworx prefers storage nodes to start the KVDB. |

> | PWX-12466 | The `--all` option for `pxctl cloudmigrate start` cli has been deprecated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12466 | The `--all` option for the `pxctl cloudmigrate start` command has been deprecated. |
```

> | PWX-10590 | Portworx now reports prometheus metrics related to its KVDB activity. These metrics start with the following prefix: `px_kvdb_`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-10590 | Portworx now reports Prometheus metrics related to its KVDB activity. These metrics start with the following prefix: `px_kvdb_`. |
```

> | PWX-13628 | Improved dynamic updates to the Portworx service in Kubernetes environments. <br/>Changing Kubernetes configuration directives, such as `dnsPolicy`, previously did not propagate to the Portworx service (Portworx service needed to be restarted to apply the changes). After the fix, changing Kubernetes network configuration now automatically propagates to the Portworx service with no restarts required. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13628 | Improved dynamic updates to the Portworx service in Kubernetes environments. <br/>Changing Kubernetes configuration directives, such as `dnsPolicy`, previously did not propagate to the Portworx service (Portworx service needed to be restarted to apply the changes). After the fix, changing the Kubernetes network configuration now automatically propagates to the Portworx service with no restarts required. |
```

| PWX-14780 | Changed the threshold of repeated alerts from 30 seconds to 2 minutes. |

> | PWX-13806 | Added support for cloudsnaps on Azure government cloud. To enable this, set the environment variable `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` to `AzureUsGovernmentCloud`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13806 | Added support for cloudsnaps on the Azure government cloud. To enable this, set the environment variable `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` to `AzureUsGovernmentCloud`. |
```

| PWX-13437 | Cloudsnaps now allow for `STANDARD_IA` as the storage class for cloudsnap objects with AWS `-s3`. You can specify the storage class while creating credentials. |
| PWX-12151 | You can now add labels to a sharedv4 volume so that the remote mount/client uses NFSv4. For more information, refer to the [Updating volumes using pxctl](/reference/cli/updating-volumes/) article. |
| PWX-11543 | On node startup, each node will raise an alert if it is unable to connect to any of the endpoints of an external etcd. |

> | PWX-15226 | Older vault clients on older golang versions could leak stale connections to the vault server if authentication with vault fails. PX will now cleanup such stale connections. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-15226 | Older Vault clients on older Go versions could leak stale connections to the Vault server if authentication with vault fails. Portworx will now cleanup such stale connections. |
```

> | PWX-12274 | Pool delete now prints a list of volumes on the pool. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12274 | The `pxctl service pool delete` command now prints a list of volumes on the pool. |
```

> | PWX-13398 | Added the dashboards to the spec generator (master/2.6). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13398 | Added the dashboards showing the replication status to the spec generator. |
```

| PWX-15047 | Portworx now raises a detailed error event if installed on nodes without disks. |

> | PWX-14666	 | Improved the recovery time when a storage node goes down and there is another storageless node running in the same failure domain. </br>The recovery will happen only if the machine (VM) for the downed storage node is also deleted, since the storageless node performing the recovery needs to attach the downed node's drives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-14666 | Improved the recovery time when a storage node goes down and there is another storageless node running in the same failure domain. </br>The recovery will happen only if the machine (VM) for the downed storage node is also deleted, since the storageless node performing the recovery needs to attach the downed node's drives. |
```

> | PWX-14666	 | Improved the recovery time when a storage node goes down and there is another storageless node running in the same failure domain. </br>The recovery will happen only if the machine (VM) for the downed storage node is also deleted, since the storageless node performing the recovery needs to attach the downed node's drives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-14666 | Improved the recovery time when a storage node goes down and there is another storageless node running in the same failure domain. </br>The recovery will happen only if the machine (VM) for the downed storage node is also deleted, since the storageless node performing the recovery needs to attach the downed node's drives. |
```

> | PWX-12646 | Entering `pxctl status` without a token provides confusing information. <!-- ??? -->|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12646 | Entering the`pxctl status` command without a token provides confusing information. <!-- ??? -->|
```

| PWX-14206 | You can now specify runtime MountOptions for Portworx volumes. </br>Added two new fields to Portworx volumes: <ul><li> `mount_options`: Allows you to specify mount-time options for regular block volume mounts.</li><li>`sharedv4_mount_options`: Allows you to specify (NFS) mount-time options for sharedv4 volumes.</li></ul> |
| PWX-14102 | You can now export a sharedV4 volume outside of a Portworx cluster using specific IP addresses. |
|PWX-10207| You can now override a volume's group field using `pxctl`: <br/><br/> `pxctl volume update --group <GROUP> <VOL_NAME>`|

> | PWX-11884 | Portworx now supports per-volume encryption with scaled volumes.DCOS users who use Portworx scaled volumes can provide a volume spec in the following manner to create a scaled volume which uses "mysecret" secret key for encryption: </br> `secret_key=mysecret,secure=true,name=myscaledvolume,scale=3`	|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-11884 | Portworx now supports per-volume encryption with scaled volumes. DCOS users who use Portworx scaled volumes can provide a volume spec in the following manner:</br> `secret_key=mysecret,secure=true,name=myscaledvolume,scale=3`</br> This example creates a scaled volume that uses the "mysecret" secret key for encryption. |
```

| PWX-15276 | You can now configure the frequency as well as the memory limit at which the Portworx process's memory heap and stack will be dumped: <ul><li>`-rt_opts heapdump_limit_mb=<mb>`</li><li>`-rt_opts heapdump_frequency_min=<interval-in-minutes>`</li></ul> |

> | PWX-11967 | `pxctl status` now displays which device is being used for an internal KVDB. This will be shown only on the nodes where an internal KVDB is running. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-11967 | The `pxctl status` command now displays which device is being used for the internal KVDB. This will be shown only on the nodes where the internal KVDB is running. |
```

| PWX-13718 | Portworx now returns a user-friendly error when a sharedv4 mount command times-out instead of `signal: killed`. |
| PWX-12367 | Cloudsnap metrics fields have changed with this release. Previously, the fields were `px_backup_stats_status`, `px_backup_stats_size`, and `px_backup_stats_duration_seconds`. These are replaced with `px_backup_stats_backup_status`, `px_backup_stats_backup_size`, and `px_backup_stats_backup_duration_seconds`. |

### Fixes

The following issues have been fixed:

|**Issue Number**|**Issue Description**|
|----|----|
| PWX-12672 | Due to an accounting issue, i/o gets delayed when a node goes down in a specific condition. |
| PWX-14333 | When both the `multipathd` device and the backing device contained the KVDB volume label, Portworx sometimes mistakenly picked up the backing device and failed to mount it. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx failed to come up on the nodes where the internal KVDB was running.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now chooses the `multipathd` device when both `multipathd` and the backing device contain the KVDB volume label. |

> | PWX-14937 | Added a fix to allow pool expand using the add-disk operation on storage pools that have a journal partition. <br/><br/>**User impact:** If users installed Portworx with cloud drive provisioning using the auto-journal (`-j auto`), expanding the pool with the `add-disk` operation type failed with a "not supported" error message. Users also saw the same error when using Autopilot to expand the pools. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** If Portworx was installed using the auto-journal, it can now expand pools using the `add-disk` operation type. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-14937 | Added a fix to allow pool expansion using the add-disk operation on storage pools that have a journal partition. <br/><br/>**User impact:** If users installed Portworx with cloud drive provisioning using the auto-journal (`-j auto`) flag, expanding the pool with the `add-disk` operation type failed with a "not supported" error message. Users also saw the same error when using Autopilot to expand the pools. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** If Portworx was installed using the auto-journal, it can now expand pools using the `add-disk` operation type. |
```

| PWX-11545	| Portworx installations with storage pool caching failed to come up after upgrading from 2.3.x to 2.4 or 2.5. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx failed to become operational after upgrading from 2.3.0 to 2.5.0. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** This change fixes the upgrade path in 2.6.0, allowing you to upgrade from 2.3.0 to 2.6.0 without experiencing a failure. |

> | PWX-13777 | Kubernetes makes its services information available to pods via environment variables. However, each update to environment variables set for a Portworx pod would result in the restart of the Portworx systemd service.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Kubernetes clusters that frequently update services could experience storage interruptions.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** OCI-Monitor now manages the changes to its pod environment variables, so the updates made on the unrelated Kubernetes services will no longer cause the restarts of the Portworx systemd service. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13777 | Kubernetes makes the information about its services available to pods via environment variables. However, each update to environment variables set for a Portworx pod would result in the restart of the Portworx `systemd` service.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Kubernetes clusters that frequently update services could experience storage interruptions.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** OCI-Monitor now manages the changes to its pod environment variables, so the updates made on the unrelated Kubernetes services will no longer cause restarts of the Portworx `systemd` service. |
```

> | PWX-14160 | The Portworx SDK did not return disks and pools in its response. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Users of the [Portworx SDK](/reference/developer-sdk/) or `pxctl -j cluster list` would see empty `Disks` and `Pools` fields in the response. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** The Portworx SDK handler now populates these 2 missing fields. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-14160 | The Portworx SDK did not return the list of disks and pools in its response. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Users of the [Portworx SDK](/reference/developer-sdk/) or of the `pxctl -j cluster list` command would see empty `Disks` and `Pools` fields in the response. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** The Portworx SDK handler now populates these 2 missing fields. |
```

| PWX-13655 | When Portworx went down or restarted, it created detailed logs. On some systems, this operation could take a long time and potentially hang.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Log collection could become unresponsive as a result of this log dump. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Unnecessary logs were removed, eliminating the possibility for log collection to hang. |

> |PWX-13086| When a VM running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, Portworx drives get deleted.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a worker node running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted and the Portworx disks are still attached to the VM, the default vSphere behavior is the disks also get deleted. This causes Portworx to loose it's data disk and hence users will end up loosing the Portworx node. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** For vSphere 6.7.3 and above, create PX disks (vmdks) such that they don't get deleted on VM deletion by using the `keepAfterDeleteVm` flag. For lower vSphere versions, the issue still persists.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|PWX-13086| When a VM running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, the Portworx drives get deleted.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a worker node running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, and the Portworx disks are still attached to the VM, the default vSphere behavior is the disks also get deleted. This causes Portworx to lose its data disk, and hence users will end up losing the Portworx node. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** For vSphere 6.7.3 and above, create Portworx disks (vmdks) such that they don't get deleted on VM deletion by using the `keepAfterDeleteVm` flag. For lower vSphere versions, the issue persists.|
```

| PWX-11352 | Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir>/<subdir>` into the Portworx container could lead to excessive accumulation of disk-mounts.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir/subdir>` in Portworx could cause mountpoints to keep accumulating with every service restart, resulting in host slowdown and (eventually) an unresponsive/hung host system. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now checks for overlapping mount directives, and rejects such mount configurations.|

> | PWX-12528	| When upgrading Portworx on OpenShift, upgrade operations were blocked. Portworx will no longer make the following configuration file /etc/pwx/.private.json on the host as immutable. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12528 | When upgrading Portworx on OpenShift, upgrade operations were blocked. Portworx will no longer make the `/etc/pwx/.private.json` configuration file on the host immutable. |
```

| PWX-12952 | etcd compaction sometimes broke the propagation of license updates. <br/><br/>**User impact:** If the etcd database was configured to automatically compact, license updates may not propagate to all the nodes in the cluster.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** etcd compaction no longer breaks the license updates. |
| PWX-12652 | Volume calls according to [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1emDIahsfJzxJN2cCBoZpxXolrolCwukI-dyemsiJRkA/edit#heading=h.solm1ski6161) are protected by auth middleware. |

> | PWX-12466	| The `--all` option for `pxctl cloudmigrate start` cli has been deprecated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12466	| The `--all` option for the `pxctl cloudmigrate start` command is deprecated. |
```

| PWX-14648 | Portworx did not honor the storage class parameter `export_options` during volume creation. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Any export options provided to the storage class were not included when the storage class was used. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Portworx now parses `export_options` when they are set as storage class parameters. |
| PWX-14941| On volume creation, Portworx formats the volume and then detaches the block device. This detach can sometimes return an `EBUSY` since the format I/O is yet to be completed. Previously, Portworx used to wait for 10 seconds before retrying the detach and did this up to 10 times. Now it will immediately try to detach and then exponentially back off if it fails. |

> | PWX-13528 | Fixed an issue where vSphere 6.5 deletes disks associated with VM on VM Delete.</br><br/>**User impact:** When Portworx is installed using cloud drives on vSphere 6.5, if users delete the VM directly from vSphere without detaching all the disks, the disks will get deleted causing PX to lose quorum. </br><br/>**Resolution:** You must now provide the `DISK_EXTENSION` environment variable with the disk type as `.pxd` to create a vmdk disk as `.pxd` types to ensure the disk is not deleted on VM deletion. This option currently works with fresh Portworx installations on VMware infrastructure. You cannot upgradde from previous versions to 2.6.0 with `DISK_EXTENSION`.<br/>You do not need to ues this on vSphere 6.7u3 and above. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13528 | Fixed an issue where vSphere 6.5 deletes disks associated with VM on VM Delete.</br><br/>**User impact:** When Portworx is installed using cloud drives on vSphere 6.5, if users delete the VM directly from vSphere without detaching all the disks, the disks will get deleted causing PX to lose quorum. </br><br/>**Resolution:** To ensure the disk is not deleted on VM deletion, you must now provide the `DISK_EXTENSION` environment variable with the disk type as `.pxd` to create a vmdk disk as `.pxd` types. This option currently works with fresh Portworx installations on VMware infrastructure. You cannot upgrade from previous versions to 2.6.0 with `DISK_EXTENSION`.<br/>You do not need to use this on vSphere 6.7u3 and above. |
```

> | PWX-12601 | Restarting Portworx service while using Objectstore could hang.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Restarting Portworx service while the uploads local Objectstore was active could hang the restart operation for over 5 minutes, and result in the Portworx service being marked as "failed".<br/><br/>**Resolution:** The Portworx service restart now restarts gracefully, stopping active Objectstore uploads and service restarts in a timely fashion. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12601 | Restarting the Portworx service while using Objectstore could hang.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Restarting the Portworx service while the uploads local Objectstore was active <!-- I don't understand what exactly was active --> could hang the restart operation for over 5 minutes, and result in the Portworx service being marked as "failed".<br/><br/>**Resolution:** The Portworx service restarts now gracefully and in a timely fashion, stopping active Objectstore uploads. |
```

|PWX-13542| Portworx running on vSphere using cloud drives fails to come up when it cannot find the path of the attached disk.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx will fail to initialize on the node when it fails to find the device path of the attached disk. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx will now retry for up to 2 minutes to find the path of the attached disk. |
| PWX-13169 | Fixed counting of volume-attaches on the local node |

> | PWX-15060 | This change fixes core seen while restoring in incremental backups created under a folder in the bucket. Folder under buckets is not supported for cloudsnaps. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-15060 | This change fixes core dumps generated while restoring incremental backups created under a folder in the bucket. Portworx does not support placing folders under buckets for cloudsnaps. |
```

> | PWX-13178 | In Azure, a disk can be attached anywhere in an availability set. When using Availability sets with the auto-disk provisioning feature in Portworx, storageless nodes did not pick up disks left on terminated storage nodes. Ideally they should have picked up the disks as they can be attached by any VM in the availability set.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a storage node is terminated in Azure, any online storageless node should pick up the drives left by the storage node and keep the cluster in quorum. Due to incorrect handling of availability sets, storageless nodes did not pick up the drives.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now correctly detects that nodes are part of an availability set and attaches drives left by a storage node in the availability set. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13178 | In Azure, a disk can be attached anywhere in an availability set. When using availability sets with the auto-disk provisioning feature in Portworx, storageless nodes did not pick up disks left on terminated storage nodes. Ideally, they should have picked up the disks as they can be attached by any VM in the availability set.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a storage node is terminated in Azure, any online storageless node should pick up the drives left by the storage node and keep the cluster in quorum. Due to incorrect handling of availability sets, storageless nodes did not pick up the drives.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now correctly detects that nodes are part of an availability set and attaches drives left by a storage node in the availability set. |
```

> | PSG-172 | When using CSI in a PKS environment, volume provisioning was not working because an incorrect kubelet host path was used by CSI sidecar containers.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** CSI PVCs became stuck as "pending" in PKS. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Fixed the Portworx specs to used the correct kubelet host path when using CSI on PKS. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PSG-172 | When using CSI in a PKS environment, volume provisioning was not working because an incorrect kubelet host path was used by the CSI sidecar containers.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** CSI PVCs became stuck as "pending" in PKS. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Fixed the Portworx specs to use the correct kubelet host path when using CSI on PKS. |
```

| PWX-15341 | Portworx installs on AKS started failing on August 21, 2020 due to an Azure backend change which causes VM disk attach APIs to fail when using VMSS. Until Azure fixes this problem, Portworx calls the Azure disk attach API differently as a workaround.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When using auto disk provisioning in an AKS environment with VMSS, Portworx will not be able to attach Azure Managed Disks and, therefore, not come up at all on the cluster.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Changed how Portworx invokes the Azure VM Disk attach API. This will ensure that Azure will not throw an error and let the disk attach go through. |

> | PWX-12530 | If a node in ASG terminated and took time to release the attached drives, a new replacement node may fail to come up due to license limit on the cluster. In such a case Portworx used to fail correctly but not retry to come up. User had to manually restart Portworx.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a user is using all node licenses in the cluster and wants to replace a Portworx nodes with another (can happen during Kubernetes or VM upgrades), the new Portworx node tries to join the cluster but as the old node is not fully terminated yet, it used to exit with license limit error. In such a situation, the user has to manually bounce the new node when the old node is terminated so it can join the cluster.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** On license limit error, we wait for the old node to fully terminate and release the cloud disks. Once the old node is completely gone, the new node will start itself again and take the drives from the old node without failing with license limit error. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12530 | When a node in ASG terminates, it takes a specific amount of time to release the attached drives, and a new replacement node may fail to start due to a license limitation. This caused Portworx to fail correctly, but it did not retry to restart.  Users had to manually restart Portworx.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a user is using all node licenses in the cluster and wants to replace a Portworx node with a different one (this can happen during Kubernetes or VM upgrades), the new Portworx node tries to join the cluster, but as the old node is not fully terminated yet, Portworx used to exit with a license limit error. As a result, the user has to manually bounce the new node when the old node is terminated so it can join the cluster.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** On license limit error, Portworx now waits for the old node to fully terminate, and release the cloud disks. Once the old node is fully terminated, the new node will restart, and use the drives from the old node without failing with license limit error. |
```

> | PWX-12611 | When using auto-disk provisioning feature with auto-scaling groups, if the min size of ASG group is 0 and user was passing an explicit value of maxStorageNodesPerZone then portworx was overwriting the value to 0 from ASG group min.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx was overriding the user passed maxStorageNodesPerZone with zero based on the ASG group value. This was causing all new nodes to come up as storage nodes ignoring the user provided max storage nodes value.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** When the ASG group min value is set to 0 and if the user has provided a value, we now do not overwrite the value. Thus honoring the user provided maxStorageNodesPerZone.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12611 | When using the auto-disk provisioning feature with auto-scaling groups, if the minimum size of an ASG group is zero, and the user specifies a value for the `maxStorageNodesPerZone` parameter, then Portworx overwrites the user-provided value with zero .<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx was overriding the user-provided value for the `maxStorageNodesPerZone` parameter with zero, based on the ASG group value. This was causing all new nodes to come up as storage nodes, ignoring the user-provided max storage nodes value.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** When the ASG group minimum value is set to zero, and the user provides a different value, Portworx now does not overwrite the value, honoring the user-provided maxStorageNodesPerZone value.|
```

> | PWX-11338 | With px-cache enabled, if any single caching drive goes offline, entire storage node goes down. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-11338 | With the PX-Cache feature enabled, if any single caching drive goes offline, the entire storage node goes down. |
```

> | PWX-12670 | If auto journal is used with px-cache, occasionally it is possible for node wipe to fail clearing the md device that was built internal. Manual md stop, followed by device wipefs needed to reinitialize portworx successfully. |

Reviewer: Need more details.

Author: @sulakshm we need release notes formatted as follows: 

<issue description - 1 to 2 sentences stating what the issue is at a high level>
**User impact:** <How the user experiences the bug/what they see when the bug happens, i.e. user won't see volumes update, upgrades will fail, etc.>
**Resolution:** <what changed, particularly if Portworx now works differently or requires different input from the user in some way as a result of the change>

Reviewer 2: User Impact: pxctl sv nw fails to wipe px signature needed during recommission a node.
Resolution: There is a timing dependency from within the kernel to release access to used drives even with px stopped. This was causing node wipe to fail. Internally px now handles the failure and ensure it cleans up the drive with a retry and throws appropriate failure if still in use.

> | PWX-12999 | Intermittent node wipe failure noticed when enabled with px-cache. |

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: @sulakshm

Reviewer 2: Its the same issue posted above. One can club both bugs under same topic.

> | PWX-11750 | If a -cache param is specified and the the does not exist the -cache will be ignore and no cache devices will be displayed in pxctl.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Caching may not be enabled even if the -cache option was provided at startup. Misleading information.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** We do not prevent startup if the cache device is not found. We will issue an explicit alert msg if the device does not exist for '-cache'. This alerts and error msg will only be issues if the device is a local '/dev/...' device and cannot be found. <br/>Error msgs will be displayed in the log:<br/>Using storage device as cache: <br/>Device does not exist: <br/>Warning: ignoring non-existing storage device. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-11750 | If you specify a caching device using the `-cache` flag, and the specified device does not exist, then the `-cache` flag  will be ignored, and `pxctl` will not display any cache devices.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Caching may not be enabled even if the user has provided the `-cache` option at startup.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now starts if the cache device is not found, and displays an error message. Note that Portworx will display the error message only if the device is a local  `/dev/...` device and cannot be found. <br/>The following error messages will be displayed in the log:<br/>Using storage device as cache: <br/>Device does not exist: <br/>Warning: ignoring non-existing storage device. <!-- I'm not sure I fully understand this RN--> |
```

> | PWX-15115 | Fixed an issue where pod termination can get stuck if volume is deleted. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** If users delete the entire application stack at once including the volumes, there can be condition where the volume can get deleted before the pod completes termination. In that situation, the pod termination will continue to fail as the Portworx volume unmount will fail not being able to find the volume.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** If the volume for which the unmount request was sent is no longer present, that error is being handled now and the unmount will be allowed to proceed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-15115 | Fixed an issue where pod termination can get stuck if the user deletes a volume. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** If users delete the entire application stack at once, including the volumes, Portworx sometimes deletes the volume before the pod terminates. In such a situation, the pod will not terminate properly,  because the Portworx volume unmount operation will fail for not being able to find the volume.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now correctly handles the situation in which the unmount request is sent for a volume that is no longer present. The pod now terminates properly. |
```

|PWX-9401| A [bug in Kubernetes 1.13.5 and lower](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/76340) caused the Portworx volume driver to occasionally save annotations from one PVC into the parameters for another. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** Portworx may have created a PVC with a different group ID than the one set in its annotations. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now uses the group value from the PVC annotation that's fetched at runtime from the Kubernetes API during volume creation to ensure the group ID doesn't change.|

> | PWX-13362 | Pod may be stuck in terminating state due to a race in where the volume gets attached and detached. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** Issue can be resolved by restarting the pods. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13362 | Pods may get stuck in the terminating state due to a race condition where the volume gets attached and detached. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** Users may see pods stuck in the terminating state.  <br/><br/>**Resolution:**  You can solve this issue by restarting the pods. |
```

> | PWX-12288	 | 	Handle a race condition in node decommission which caused the node to be in an inconsistent state where it would stay partially decommissioned and never completed the decommission operation. |

Reviewer: Need more details

Author: @adityadani

Author: @sulakshm

Reviewer 3: User Impact : Decommissioned node shows in the nodes list 
Resolution : Due to a race condition in node decommission workflow it used to leave the decommissioned node in inconsistent state. This is been addressed to avoid this so that decommissioning of node runs to success.

Reviewer 4: ^ looks good.

> | PWX-15094 | Fix a nil panic in PX that could occur when px successfully creates a vault client but due to vault being in an error state it would return an error: "too many open file handles" for subsequent vault operations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-15094 | A nil panic in Portworx sometimes occurred when Portworx successfully created a Vault client while Vault was in an error state.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx returned an error: "too many open file handles" for subsequent vault operations.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx no longer panics when Vault is experiencing an error. |
```

> | PWX-12088 | Portworx used a version of IBM KeyProtect that caused a golang panic if multiple threads tried to use this SDK. <br/><br/>Portworx would get restarted and some apps might not come back online immediately.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now uses the latest IBM KeyProtect library v0.3.5 which has this panic fixed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-12088 | Portworx used a version of IBM KeyProtect that caused a kernel panic if multiple threads tried to use it.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Portworx nodes experiencing a kernel panic restarted, and some apps did not come back online after recovery.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now uses IBM KeyProtect library v0.3.5, which solves this problem. |
```

> | PWX-13459 | When using Sharedv4 volumes, if the node where the volume was attached was powered down, daemonset pods on surviving nodes could get stuck in the **terminating** state. <br/><br/> **User impact:** Users saw stuck **terminating** pods that Kubernetes was unable to recover. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Pods now terminate properly. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-13459 | When using Sharedv4 volumes, if the node where the volume was attached was powered down, daemonset pods on surviving nodes became stuck in the **terminating** state. <br/><br/> **User impact:** Users saw stuck **terminating** pods that Kubernetes was unable to recover. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Pods now terminate properly. |
```

> | PWX-15250 | When portworx on a node running internal kvdb with a kvdb device gets killed without involving a restart of the portworx service, PX fails to come up as it fails to mount the kvdb device which is already mounted. <br/><br/> **User impact:** PX won't start on the nodes running internal kvdb <br/><br/> **Resolution:** PX will now recovery successfully even if it gets killed and the kvdb devices is still mounted. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PWX-15250 | Sometimes, when running Portworx with the internal KVdb, the Portworx service doesn't restart on the node where the internal KVdb runs, because the KVdb devices are still mounted. <br/><br/> **User impact:** If you force-terminate the Portworx service, it'll not start on the nodes running  the internal KVdb <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Portworx now successfully restarts. |
```

> | PWX-10674 | Node decommission in certain cases would keep the cloud drives around and not delete them. |

Reviewer: Need more details

Author: @adityadani

Reviewer 3: User impact : Cloud drives used to linger around in cloud after owned node is decommissioned
Resolution: Node decommission now removes the cloud drives which were left undeleted in certain cases

Reviewer 4: looks good ^

| PWX-8385 | Portworx, Inc. discovered a security issue in the method used to provide the secret location to Portworx from a PVC. <br/><br/>**User Impact**: Users could point to a secret in a namespace they could not access in the annotations of a PVC. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** In 2.6, Portworx no longer supports using annotations in the PVC to create volumes. Instead, it uses the same secure method used by CSI and has the StorageClass reference the secret and the secret namespace. |

> <!--

Author: No content in the ticket, I suggest we remove this. @vilasd

series: release-notes
---

## 2.6.0

August 26, 2020

### Improvements

Portworx has upgraded or enhanced functionality in the following areas:

| **Improvement Number** | **Improvement Description** |
|----|----|

> | PWX-12737 | Added support for automatic cloud disk management for non-public Azure clouds like US Government, Germany and China clouds. |

Author: @piyush-nimbalkar  I need more here. What is the issue? How do customers experience it? What's the resolution, i.e. was any functionality changed with the fix? 

Description:

User impact:

Resolution:

> | PWX-12737 | Added support for automatic cloud disk management for non-public Azure clouds like US Government, Germany and China clouds. |

Reviewer 5: We don't need this as it was already part of [2.5.2 release notes](https://docs.portworx.com/reference/release-notes/portworx/#2-5-2)

Author: sometimes we mention them twice if a fix was implemented in two different versions (for example the latest previous version and the latest current version). I'm not sure if that should be the case for a brand new version, @vilasd ?

> | PWX-13011 | Reduced Portworx install/upgrade times on air-gapped environments that drop the outbound network traffic (i.e. where "curl portworx.com" command would hang). |

Author: @zoxpx can you format this into the sections?

Description:

User impact:

Resolution:

| PWX-11967 | pxctl status will now display which device is being used for internal kvdb. This will be shown only on the nodes where internal kvdb is running. |
| PWX-13375 | Portworx now accepts a new install argument `--node_pool_label` to determine which Kubernetes node labels to apply to CloudDrive sets. Portworx will only attach those DriveSets to a node if the node label passed through `--node_pool_label` matches the label on the CloudDrive set. |
|PWX-13510| Added a new runtime option `rt_opts kvdb_failover_timeout_in_mins` to configure kvdb offline node failover timeout. The default value is set to 3 minutes.|
| PWX-13718 | Return a user friendly error when a sharedv4 mount command times out instead of "signal: killed" |
| PWX-12367 | Cloudsnap metrics fields have changed with this release. Prior to this release, the fields were "px_backup_stats_status", "px_backup_stats_size", and "px_backup_stats_duration_seconds". These are replaced with "px_backup_stats_backup_status", "px_backup_stats_backup_size", and "px_backup_stats_backup_duration_seconds". |

### Fixes

The following issues have been fixed:

|**Issue Number**|**Issue Description**|
|----|----|

> | PWX-12672 | Due to an accounting issue, i/o gets delayed when a node goes down in a specific condition. |

Author: @sangleganesh I need more here, can you provide the following information?

Description:

User impact:

Resolution:

Reviewer 3: User impact: Applications will see low iops during this transition when replica goes down
Resolution: Due to an accounting issue, i/o gets delayed when a node goes down .

|PWX-13086| When a VM running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, Portworx drives get deleted.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a worker node running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted and the Portworx disks are still attached to the VM, the default vSphere behavior is the disks also get deleted. This causes Portworx to loose it's data disk and hence users will end up loosing the Portworx node. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** For vSphere 6.7.3 and above, create PX disks (vmdks) such that they don't get deleted on VM deletion by using the `keepAfterDeleteVm` flag. For lower vSphere versions, the issue still persists.|
| PWX-11352 | Portworx is now checking and preventing overlapping mounts-directive, which could lead into unresponsive/hang host.</br>
* cause: mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir/subdir>` into portworx, could cause mountpoints to accumulate with every service restart, until the host hangs</br>* fix: we are now rejecting such mounts configuration |

> | PWX-12528	| Portworx will no longer make the following configuration file /etc/pwx/.private.json on the host as immutable. |

Author: @adityadani Need more info here, please provide information for each of the sections:

Description:

User impact:

Resolution:

| PWX-12601 | Fixed Portworx services restart, so Portworx restarts won't hang when restarting while uploads into Objectstore are active |
|PWX-13542| PX running on vSphere using cloud drives fails to come up when it cannot find the path of the attached disk.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx will fail to initialize on the node when it fails to find the device path of the attached disk. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx will now retry upto 2 minutes to find the path of the attached disk. |
| PWX-13169 | Fixed counting of volume-attaches on the local node |
| PWX-14106 | Added support for a new environment variable: `PX_HTTP_PROXY`. This allows you to specify an HTTP proxy during Portworx installation, permitting sharedv4 volumes and package installation to work properly on air-gapped environments that lacked their own system-wide HTTP proxy. |
| PWX-15060 | This change fixes core seen while restoring in incremental backups created under a folder in the bucket. Folder under buckets is not supported for cloudsnaps. |

> | PWX-13178 | In case of Azure availability sets, storageless nodes were not automatically restarting and taking drives left by a down storage node.

Reviewer 5: In Azure a disk can be attached anywhere in an availability set. When using Availability sets with auto-disk provisioning feature in Portworx, storageless nodes were not picking up disks left terminated storage nodes. Ideally they should have picked up the disks as they can be attached by any VM in the availability set.

**User impact**: When a storage node is terminated in Azure, any online storageless node should pick up the drives left by the storage node and keep the cluster in quorum. Due to incorrect handling of availability sets, storageless nodes were not picking up the drives.

**Resolution**: Correctly detecting that nodes are part of an availability set and attaching drives left by a storage node in the availability set.

With this fix, now storageless nodes will detect that a storage node is down and restart automatically after a timeout if there are cloud drives available for attaching. |
| PSG-172 | When using CSI in a PKS environment, volume provisioning was not working because of incorrect kubelet host path was used by CSI sidecar containers. Fixed this to used the correct kubelet host path when using CSI on PKS. |

> | PWX-15341 | PX installs on AKS started failing due to some Azure changes on the backed which is causing some APIs to fail when trying to attach Azure disks. Changed how the Azure disk attach API is called to fix the problem from Portworx side. |

Reviewer 5: PX installs on AKS started failing on 08/21/2020 due to an Azure backend change which is causing VM disk attach APIs to fail when using VMSS . Until Azure fixes the problem, changed how the Azure disk attach API is called to fix the problem from Portworx side.

**User impact**: When using auto disk provisioning in an AKS environment with VMSS, Portworx will not be able to attach Azure Managed Disks and hence not come up at all on the cluster.

**Resolution**: Changed how Portworx invokes the Azure VM Disk attach API. This will ensure that Azure will not throw an error and let the disk attach go through.

> | PWX-12530 | If a node in ASG terminated and took time to release the attached drives, a new replacement node may fail to come up due to license limit on the cluster. In such a case Portworx used to fail correctly but not retry to come up. User had to manually restart Portworx.

Reviewer 5: If a node in ASG terminated and took time to release the attached drives, a new replacement node may fail to come up due to license limit on the cluster. In such a case Portworx used to fail correctly but not retry to come up. User had to manually restart Portworx.

**User impact**: When a user is using all node licenses in the cluster and wants to replace a Portworx nodes with another (can happen during Kubernetes or VM upgrades), the new Portworx node tries to join the cluster but as the old node is not fully terminated yet, it used to exit with license  limit error. In such a situation, the user has to manually bounce the new node when the old node is terminated so it can join the cluster.

**Resolution**: On license limit error, we wait for the old node to fully terminate and release the cloud disks. Once the old node is completely gone, the new node will start itself again and take the drives from the old node without failing with license limit error.

Now we wait and try for drives to get detached from the terminated node; not requiring user intervention. |

> | PWX-12611 | 	When using auto-disk provisioning feature with auto-scaling groups, if the min size of ASG group is 0 and user was passing an explicit value of maxStorageNodesPerZone then portworx was overwriting the value to 0 from ASG group min. Impact: Not honoring user's maxStorageNodesPerZone and setting to zero, which means we can create any number of storage nodes in the cluster. |

Reviewer 5: When using auto-disk provisioning feature with auto-scaling groups, if the min size of ASG group is 0 and user was passing an explicit value of maxStorageNodesPerZone then portworx was overwriting the value to 0 from ASG group min.

**User impact**: Portworx was overriding the user passed `maxStorageNodesPerZone` with zero based on the ASG group value. This was causing all new nodes to come up as storage nodes ignoring the user provided max storage nodes value.

**Resolution**: When the ASG group min value is set to 0 and if the user has provided a value, we now do not overwrite the value. Thus honoring the user provided `maxStorageNodesPerZone`.

| PWX-14780 | Changed threshold of repeated alerts from 30 seconds to 2 minutes. |
| PWX-13175 | Portworx now supports sharedv4 volumes on hosts running Flatcar OS. |
| PWX-13806 | Added support for cloud snaps on Azure government cloud. To enable this, set the environment variable `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` to `AzureUsGovernmentCloud`. |
| PWX-13437 | Cloudsnaps now allow for `STANDARD_IA` as the storage class for cloudsnap objects with AWS `-s3`. The storage class can be specified while creating credentials. |
| PWX-12151 | You can now add labels to a sharedv4 volume so that the remote mount/client uses NFSv4. For more information, refer to the [Updating volumes using pxctl](/reference/cli/updating-volumes/) article. |
| PWX-11543 | On node startup, each node will raise an alert if it is unable to connect to any of the endpoints of an external etcd. |

> | PWX-10216 | Added support for Vault Namespaces. |

Reviewer 4: This was added in 2.5.x releases. We can skip it from here.

> | PWX-14034 | Read all vault related install arguments from the px-vault kubernetes secret. Certain vault parameters like VAULT_AUTH_METHOD and VAULT_AUTH_KUBERNETES_ROLE were not being read from the kubernetes secret. |

Reviewer 4: Was added in 2.5.x

| PWX-15226 | Older vault clients on older golang versions could leak stale connections to the vault server if authentication with vault fails. PX will now cleanup such stale connections. |

> | PWX-11288 | Added support for Vault Kubernetes Authentication. |

Reviewer 6: @saheienko I don't support for PWX-11288 got added in 2.6.0. Looking at the bug support was added in 2.4.2, 2.5.2.
Can you confirm?

Reviewer 4: Yes this was added in 2.5.x release. We can skip this.

| PWX-12274 | Pool delete now prints a list of volumes on the pool. |
| PWX-13398 | Added the dashboards to the spec generator (master/2.6) |
| PWX-15047 | Px now raises a detailed error event if installed on nodes without disks |
| PWX-14666	 | Improves the recovery time when a storage node goes down and there is another storageless node running in the same failure domain. </br>The recovery will happen only if the machine (VM) for the down storage node is also deleted since the storageless node performing recovery needs to attach the down node's drives.

> | PWX-12646 | pxctl status without a token provides confusing information |

Reviewer 4: @lpabon Can you help here and provide more context to this release note?

| PWX-14102 | You can now export a sharedV4 volume outside of a Portworx cluster using specific IP addresses. |
|PWX-10207|You can now override a volume's group field using pxctl: <br/><br/> `pxctl volume update --group <GROUP> <VOL_NAME>`|
| PWX-11884 | Portworx now supports per volume encryption with scaled volumes.
DCOS users who use Portworx scaled volumes can provide a volume spec in the following manner to create a scaled volume which uses "mysecret" secret key for encryption: </br> secret_key=mysecret,secure=true,name=myscaledvolume,scale=3	|
| PWX-15276 | Allow configuring the frequency as well as the memory limit at which the px process's memory heap and stack will be dumped. </br >-rt_opts heapdump_limit_mb=<mb> </br >-rt_opts heapdump_frequency_min=<interval-in-minutes> |
| PWX-11967 | pxctl status will now display which device is being used for internal kvdb. This will be shown only on the nodes where internal kvdb is running. |

> | PWX-13375 | Portworx now accepts a new install argument `--node_pool_label` to determine which Kubernetes node labels to apply to CloudDrive sets. Portworx will only attach those DriveSets to a node if the node label passed through `--node_pool_label` matches the label on the CloudDrive set. |

Reviewer 4: This was also a part of 2.5.3 so we can skip it

> |PWX-13510| Added a new runtime option `rt_opts kvdb_failover_timeout_in_mins` to configure kvdb offline node failover timeout. The default value is set to 3 minutes.|

Reviewer 4: same here - part of 2.5.3

| PWX-13528 | Fixes issue where VMware deletes disks associated with VM on VM Delete.</br>User has to provide `DISK_EXTENSION` env with disk type as ".pxd" to create vmdk disk as .pxd types to ensure disk does not get deleted on VM deletion.</br>This options currently work with fresh PX installation on VMware infrastructure, upgrade from previous version to 2.6 with `DISK_EXTENSION` is not currently supported. |
| PWX-12601 | Fixed Portworx services restart, so Portworx restarts won't hang when restarting while uploads into Objectstore are active |
|PWX-13542| PX running on vSphere using cloud drives fails to come up when it cannot find the path of the attached disk.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx will fail to initialize on the node when it fails to find the device path of the attached disk. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx will now retry upto 2 minutes to find the path of the attached disk. |

> | PWX-13169 | Fixed counting of volume-attaches on the local node |

Reviewer 6: @zoxpx is this needed for 2.6 release notes? Looks like this got introduced and fixed in 2.6.0 itself.

| PWX-12611 | When using auto-disk provisioning feature with auto-scaling groups, if the min size of ASG group is 0 and user was passing an explicit value of maxStorageNodesPerZone then portworx was overwriting the value to 0 from ASG group min.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx was overriding the user passed maxStorageNodesPerZone with zero based on the ASG group value. This was causing all new nodes to come up as storage nodes ignoring the user provided max storage nodes value.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** When the ASG group min value is set to 0 and if the user has provided a value, we now do not overwrite the value. Thus honoring the user provided maxStorageNodesPerZone.|
| PWX-11338 | with px-cache enabled, if any single caching drive goes offline, entire storage node goes down. |
| PWX-12670 | If auto journal is used with px-cache, occasionally it is possible for node wipe to fail clearing the md device that was built internal. Manual md stop, followed by device wipefs needed to reinitialize portworx successfully. |
| PWX-12999 | Intermittent node wipe failure noticed when enabled with px-cache. |

> | PWX-11750 | pxctl status shows:</br>Cache Devices:</br>* No cache devices</br>If cache drive does not exist but is specified during install |

Reviewer 7: If a -cache <device> param is specified and the the <device> does not exist the -cache <device> will be ignore and no cache devices will be displayed in pxctl.
**User Impact:**  
Caching may not be enabled even if the -cache option was provided at startup.  Misleading information.
**Resolution:**
We do not prevent startup if the cache device is not found. We will issue an explicit alert msg if the device does not exist for '-cache'.  This alerts and error msg will only be issues if the device is a local '/dev/...' device and cannot be found. </br>Error msgs will be displayed in the log:
Using storage device as cache: <device>
Device does not exist: <device>
Warning: ignoring non-existing storage device.

| PWX-15115 | Fixed an issue where pod termination can get stuck if volume is deleted. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** If users delete the entire application stack at once including the volumes, there can be condition where the volume can get deleted before the pod completes termination. In that situation, the pod termination will continue to fail as the Portworx volume unmount will fail not being able to find the volume.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** If the volume for which the unmount request was sent is no longer present, that error is being handled now and the unmount will be allowed to proceed. |
|PWX-9401| A [bug in Kubernetes 1.13.5 and lower](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/76340) caused the Portworx volume driver to occasionally save annotations from one PVC into the parameters for another. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** Portworx may have created a PVC with a different group ID than the one set in its annotations. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now uses the group value from the PVC annotation that's fetched at runtime from the Kubernetes API during volume creation to ensure the group ID doesn't change.|

> | PSG-157 | Fixed in issue in the Portworx spec generator where adding env variables will quotes causes the spec generation to fail |

Reviewer 4: We  don't need to release note this as a part of PX 2.6 release?

Reviewer 6: Yeah it's a spec generator fix for an edge case. Removing.

| PWX-13362 | Pod may be stuck in terminating state due to a race in where the volume gets attached and detached. <br/><br/>**User Impact:** Issue can be resolved by restarting the pods. |
| PWX-12288	 | 	Handle a race condition in node decommission which caused the node to be in an inconsistent state where it would stay partially decommissioned and never completed the decommission operation. |
| PWX-15094 | Fix a nil panic in PX that could occur when px successfully creates a vault client but due to vault being in an error state it would return an error: "too many open file handles" for subsequent vault operations. |

> | PWX-12088 | Portworx used a version of IBM KeyProtect that caused a kernel panic if multiple threads tried to use it.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Portworx nodes experiencing a kernel panic restarted, and some apps did not come back online after recovery.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now uses IBM KeyProtect library v0.3.5, which solves this problem. |

Reviewer 4: Essentially, there is no kernel panic
```suggestion
| PWX-12088 | Portworx used a version of IBM KeyProtect that caused a golang panic if multiple threads tried to use this SDK. <br/><br/>Portworx would get restarted and some apps might not come back online immediately.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now uses the latest IBM KeyProtect library v0.3.5 which has this panic fixed. |
```

> | PWX-13459 | When using Sharedv4 volumes, if the node where the volume was attached was powered down, daemonset pods on surviving nodes became stuck in the **terminating** state. <br/><br/> **User impact:** Users saw stuck **terminating** pods that Kubernetes was unable to recover. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Pods now terminate properly. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-13459 | When using Sharedv4 volumes, if the node where the volume was attached was powered down, daemonset pods on surviving nodes could get stuck in the **terminating** state. <br/><br/> **User impact:** Users saw stuck **terminating** pods that Kubernetes was unable to recover. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Pods now terminate properly. |
```

> | PWX-15250 | When portworx on a node running internal kvdb with a kvdb device gets killed without involving a restart of the portworx service, PX fails to come up as it fails to mount the kvdb device which is already mounted. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-15250 | When portworx on a node running internal kvdb with a kvdb device gets killed without involving a restart of the portworx service, PX fails to come up as it fails to mount the kvdb device which is already mounted. <br/><br/> **User impact:** PX won't start on the nodes running internal kvdb <br/><br/> **Resolution:** PX will now recovery successfully even if it gets killed and the kvdb devices is still mounted. |
```

> | PWX-8996 | PX on a node would not recover if it failed to initialize the drives. PX will now recover from a half initialized drive and redo the initialization and recover. |

Reviewer 4: This was a part of 2.5.x release

Reviewer 6: removed

series: release-notes
---

## 2.6.0

August 25, 2020

### New features

* Introducing automatic cluster wide capacity distribution and balancing
* Announcing guest (public) role access: the guest role allows your users to access and manipulate public volumes.
* Portworx now features K3s support: Deploy Portworx on the K3s distribution.
* Check out proxy volumes (NFS): use this feature to proxy an external NFS share onto your volumes.

### Improvements

Portworx has upgraded or enhanced functionality in the following areas:

| **Improvement Number** | **Improvement Description** |
|----|----|
| PWX-12737 | Added support for automatic cloud disk management for non-public Azure clouds like US Government, Germany and China clouds. |

> | PWX-13011 | Reduced Portworx install/upgrade times on air-gapped environments that drop the outbound network traffic (i.e. where "curl portworx.com" command would hang). |

Reviewer 8: Please remove -- already documented w/ px-2.5.4

Reviewer 6: removed

| PWX-12477 | Added new pxctl command to rebalance storage pools <br> To syntax, use <br> {code} <br> pxctl service pool rebalance --help <br> {code} |
| PWX-14465 | When a kvdb node is offline, if there are both storageless and storage nodes available to failover and no nodes are marked as metadata-nodes then give higher preference to storage nodes to start kvdb. |
| PWX-12466 | The `--all` option for `pxctl cloudmigrate start` cli has been deprecated. |
| PWX-10590 | Portworx now reports prometheus metrics related to its kvdb activity. These metrics start with the following prefix px_kvdb_ |
| PWX-13628 | Improved dynamic updates to Portworx service in Kubernetes environments<ul><li>changing Kubernetes configuration directives such as `dnsPolicy` previously did not propagate to Portworx service (Portworx service needed to be restarted to apply the changes)</li><li>after the fix, changing Kubernetes network configuration will be automatically propagated to Portworx service (no restarts required)</li></ul> |
| PWX-14780 | Changed threshold of repeated alerts from 30 seconds to 2 minutes. |

> | PWX-13175 | Portworx now supports sharedv4 volumes on hosts running Flatcar OS. |

Reviewer 8: Please remove -- already documented w/ px-2.5.2, px-2.5.1.2

| PWX-13437 | Cloudsnaps now allow for `STANDARD_IA` as the storage class for cloudsnap objects with AWS `-s3`. The storage class can be specified while creating credentials. |
| PWX-12151 | You can now add labels to a sharedv4 volume so that the remote mount/client uses NFSv4. For more information, refer to the [Updating volumes using pxctl](/reference/cli/updating-volumes/) article. |
| PWX-11543 | On node startup, each node will raise an alert if it is unable to connect to any of the endpoints of an external etcd. |
| PWX-10216 | Added support for Vault Namespaces. |
| PWX-14034 | Read all vault related install arguments from the px-vault kubernetes secret. Certain vault parameters like VAULT_AUTH_METHOD and VAULT_AUTH_KUBERNETES_ROLE were not being read from the kubernetes secret. |
| PWX-15226 | Older vault clients on older golang versions could leak stale connections to the vault server if authentication with vault fails. PX will now cleanup such stale connections. |
| PWX-11288 | Added support for Vault Kubernetes Authentication. |
| PWX-12274 | Pool delete now prints a list of volumes on the pool. |

> | PWX-13398 | Added the dashboards to the spec generator (master/2.6) |

Reviewer 6: @pault84  can you update this line in below format? Also remove the term "master"

```
<issue description - 1 to 2 sentences stating what the issue is at a high level>
**User impact:** <How the user experiences the bug/what they see when the bug happens, i.e. user won't see volumes update, upgrades will fail, etc.>
**Resolution:** <what changed, particularly if Portworx now works differently or requires different input from the user in some way as a result of the change>
```

> | PWX-15047 | Px now raises a detailed error event if installed on nodes without disks |

Reviewer 6: @trierra can you update your `PWX-15047` release note with below format?

```
<issue description - 1 to 2 sentences stating what the issue is at a high level>
**User impact:** <How the user experiences the bug/what they see when the bug happens, i.e. user won't see volumes update, upgrades will fail, etc.>
**Resolution:** <what changed, particularly if Portworx now works differently or requires different input from the user in some way as a result of the change>
```

Reviewer 9: I will

> | PWX-11740 | Supports resize operation on GKE platform |

Reviewer 6: remove the PWX-11740 line. This was just a cherry-pick already present in previous 2.5.X release.

| PWX-14666	 | Improves the recovery time when a storage node goes down and there is another storageless node running in the same failure domain. </br>The recovery will happen only if the machine (VM) for the down storage node is also deleted since the storageless node performing recovery needs to attach the down node's drives.

> | PWX-13157 | Removed unnecessary errors logs during PX startup |

Reviewer 6: will remove this .. logging change. Not needed to release note.

| PWX-14937  | Added a fix to allow pool expand using add-disk operation on storage pools that have a journal partition.</br></br>**User impact:** If users have installed Portworx with cloud drive provisioning with auto journal (-j auto), pool expand with operation type add-disk will fail with error message saying it is not supported. The same failure will also be seen when users are using Autopilot to expand the pools.</br></br>**Resolution:** When pools are expanded using operation type add-disk, there is no actual limitation if PX was installed wit auto journal. The resolution was to remove the auto journal check if expand is being done using add-disk operation. |
| PWX-11545	| Portworx installations with storage pool caching failed to come up after upgrading from 2.3.x to 2.4 or 2.5. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx failed to become operational after upgrading from 2.3.0 to 2.5.0. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** This change fixes the upgrade path in 2.6.0, allowing you to upgrade from 2.3.0 to 2.6.0 without experiencing a failure. |

> | PWX-13777 | The Portworx pod previously passed unnecessary environment variables to the Portworx service, which sometimes caused it to restart more than it needed to. <br/><br/> **User impact:** When the Kubernetes environment changed, users may have experienced storage interruptions due to these restarts. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** The Portworx pod now passes fewer environment variables to the Portworx service, greatly reducing restarts. |

Reviewer 8: Needs update:
```
Kubernetes makes its services information available to PODs via environment variables.
However, each update to environment variables set for a Portworx POD, would result in
the restart of the Portworx systemd service.

**User Impact:**
Kubernetes clusters that frequently update services could therefore experience storage interruptions.

**Resolution:**
OCI-Monitor now manages the changes to its PODs environment variables, so the updates made on the
unrelated Kubernetes services will no longer cause the restarts of the Portworx systemd service.
```

Reviewer 8: Actually, this is already listed under px-2.5.2.1 release notes -- please remove

| PWX-13655 | When Portworx went down or restarted, it created detailed logs. On some systems, this operation could take a long time and potentially hang.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Log collection could become unresponsive as a result of this log dump. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Unnecessary logs were removed, eliminating the possibility for log collection to hang. |
|PWX-13086| When a VM running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, Portworx drives get deleted.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a worker node running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted and the Portworx disks are still attached to the VM, the default vSphere behavior is the disks also get deleted. This causes Portworx to loose it's data disk and hence users will end up loosing the Portworx node. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** For vSphere 6.7.3 and above, create PX disks (vmdks) such that they don't get deleted on VM deletion by using the `keepAfterDeleteVm` flag. For lower vSphere versions, the issue still persists.|

> | PWX-11352 | Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir>/<subdir>` into the Portworx container sometimes led to mount leak scenarios, which could result in an unresponsive host.</br><br/> **User impact:** Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir/subdir>` in Portworx sometimes caused mount points to accumulate with every service restart until the host hung. <br/></br>**Resolution:** Portworx now checks for overlapping mount directives and rejects such mount configurations. |

Reviewer 8: The "mount leak" is not a common issue people would understand.  Suggest the following wording:

```
Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir>/<subdir>` into the Portworx container could
lead to excessive accumulation of disk-mounts.

**User impact:**
Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir/subdir>` in Portworx could cause mountpoints
to keep accumulating with every service restart, resulting in host slowdown and
(eventually) an unresponsive/hung host system.

**Resolution:**
Portworx now checks for overlapping mount directives, and rejects such mount
configurations.
```

| PWX-12528	| When upgrading Portworx on OpenShift, upgrade operations were blocked. Portworx will no longer make the following configuration file /etc/pwx/.private.json on the host as immutable. |

> | PWX-12952 | etcd compaction sometimes broke the propagation of license updates <br/><br/> **User impact:** If the etcd database was configured to automatically compact (i.e. remove older modification indexes and reduce its size), license updates may not have propagated to your cluster <br/><br/> **Resolution:** When license is installed/updated on one of the nodes on the px-cluster, this update may not have propagated to _all_ the other nodes in the cluster <br>- normally, this can be fixed by restarting portworx-services, but that introduces downtime and potential interruptions of storage-serices <br> AFTER the fix, the license updates should propagate correctly to all the px-nodes, despite the etcd compaction |

Reviewer 8: No need to mention workarounds.  Suggest simpler wording:

```
etcd compaction sometimes broke the propagation of license updates

**User impact:**
If the etcd database was configured to automatically compact, license updates
may not propagate to all the nodes in the cluster.

**Resolution:**
etcd compaction no longer breaks the license updates.
```

| PWX-12652 | Volume calls according to [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1emDIahsfJzxJN2cCBoZpxXolrolCwukI-dyemsiJRkA/edit#heading=h.solm1ski6161) are protected by auth middleware |
| PWX-12466	| The `--all` option for `pxctl cloudmigrate start` cli has been deprecated. |
| PWX-14648 | Portworx did not honor the storage class parameter `export_options` during volume creation. <br/><br/>**User impact:** any export options provided to the storage class were not included when the storage class was used. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Parse export_options when they are set as storage class parameters. |

> | PWX-14186 | Optimized the timeouts on misconfigured air-gapped systems, so after the first failure to install NFS services, Portworx will refrain from attempting to install NFS services again for a period of 10 minutes. |

Reviewer 8: Please remove -- already listed under px-2.5.4 release notes

Reviewer 6: removed

| PWX-14941| On volume create, Portworx formats the volume and then detaches the block device. This detach can sometimes return an EBUSY since the format I/O is yet to be completed. Previously PX used to wait for 10 seconds before retrying the detach and do this upto 10 times. Now it will immediately try to detach and then exponentially backoff if it fails. |
| PWX-13528 | Fixes issue where VMware deletes disks associated with VM on VM Delete.</br>User has to provide `DISK_EXTENSION` env with disk type as ".pxd" to create vmdk disk as .pxd types to ensure disk does not get deleted on VM deletion.</br>This options currently work with fresh PX installation on VMware infrastructure, upgrade from previous version to 2.6 with `DISK_EXTENSION` is not currently supported. |

> | PWX-12601 | Fixed Portworx services restart, so Portworx restarts won't hang when restarting while uploads into Objectstore are active |

Reviewer 8: Restarting Portworx service while using Objectstore could hang.

**User impact:**
Restarting Portworx service while the uploads local Objectstore was active,
could hang the restart operation for over 5 minutes, and result in Portworx
service marked as "failed".

**Resolution:**
Fixed Portworx service restart, so restarts gracefully stop active
Objectstore uploads, and service restarts in a timely fashion.

|PWX-13542| PX running on vSphere using cloud drives fails to come up when it cannot find the path of the attached disk.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx will fail to initialize on the node when it fails to find the device path of the attached disk. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx will now retry upto 2 minutes to find the path of the attached disk. |
| PWX-13169 | Fixed counting of volume-attaches on the local node |

> | PWX-14106 | Added support for a new environment variable: `PX_HTTP_PROXY`. This allows you to specify an HTTP proxy during Portworx installation, permitting sharedv4 volumes and package installation to work properly on air-gapped environments that lacked their own system-wide HTTP proxy. |

Reviewer 8: Please remove -- already listed under px-2.5.4 release note

Reviewer 6: removed

| PWX-13459 | When using Sharedv4 volumes, if the node where the volume was attached was powered down, daemonset pods on surviving nodes became stuck in the **terminating** state. <br/><br/> **User impact:** Users saw stuck **terminating** pods that Kubernetes was unable to recover. <br/><br/> **Resolution:** Pods now terminate properly. |
| PWX-15250 | When portworx on a node running internal kvdb with a kvdb device gets killed without involving a restart of the portworx service, PX fails to come up as it fails to mount the kvdb device which is already mounted. |
| PWX-8996 | PX on a node would not recover if it failed to initialize the drives. PX will now recover from a half initialized drive and redo the intialization and recover. |
| PWX-10674 | Node decommission in certain cases would keep the cloud drives around and not delete them. |

> | PWX-8385 | Portworx, Inc. discovered a security issue in the method used to provide the secret location to Portworx from a PVC. <br/><br/>**User Impact**: Users could point to a secret in a namespace they could not access in the annotations of a PVC. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** In 2.6, Portworx no longer supports using annotations in the PVC to create volumes. Instead, it uses the same secure method used by CSI and has the StorageClass reference the secret and the secret namespace. |

Reviewer 6: @lpabon  for PWX-8385, do we need `Portworx, Inc. ...` ?

Author: I put it there. It's best to mention an entity or actor performing the action when you're writing with active voice.

|PWX-13086| When a VM running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, the Portworx drives get deleted.<br/><br/>**User impact:** When a worker node running Kubernetes worker node gets deleted, and the Portworx disks are still attached to the VM, the default vSphere behavior is the disks also get deleted. This causes Portworx to lose its data disk, and hence users will end up losing the Portworx node. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** For vSphere 6.7.3 and above, create Portworx disks (vmdks) such that they don't get deleted on VM deletion by using the `keepAfterDeleteVm` flag. For lower vSphere versions, the issue persists.|
| PWX-11352 | Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir>/<subdir>` into the Portworx container could lead to excessive accumulation of disk-mounts.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Mounting both `<dir>` and `<dir/subdir>` in Portworx could cause mountpoints to keep accumulating with every service restart, resulting in host slowdown and (eventually) an unresponsive/hung host system. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now checks for overlapping mount directives, and rejects such mount configurations.|

> | PWX-12528 | When upgrading Portworx on OpenShift, upgrade operations were blocked. Portworx will no longer make the `/etc/pwx/.private.json` configuration file on the host immutable. |

Author: @adityadani

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PWX-12528 | When upgrading Portworx on OpenShift, upgrade operations were blocked. Portworx will no longer make the `/etc/pwx/.private.json` configuration file on the host immutable. **User impact:** Openshift upgrades could get blocked. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now does not set the immutable flag on the /etc/pwx/.private.json |
```

| PWX-12952 | etcd compaction sometimes broke the propagation of license updates. <br/><br/>**User impact:** If the etcd database was configured to automatically compact, license updates may not propagate to all the nodes in the cluster.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** etcd compaction no longer breaks the license updates. |

> | PWX-12652 | Volume calls according to [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1emDIahsfJzxJN2cCBoZpxXolrolCwukI-dyemsiJRkA/edit#heading=h.solm1ski6161) are protected by auth middleware. |

Author: @vilasd I think we should remove this

Reviewer 3: yes remove

> | PWX-12466	| The `--all` option for the `pxctl cloudmigrate start` command is deprecated. |

Author: @disrani-px is this a fix or an enhancement?

Reviewer 3: its a fix

Reviewer 3: User Impact:Cloud migration with -a option is no longer supported  as it would  try to migrate internally created snapshots and fail
Resolution: Users can invoke cloud migration it at volume/namespace level to avoid getting into this failure

| PWX-12601 | Restarting the Portworx service while using Objectstore could hang.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Restarting the Portworx service while the uploads local Objectstore was active <!-- I don't understand what exactly was active --> could hang the restart operation for over 5 minutes, and result in the Portworx service being marked as "failed".<br/><br/>**Resolution:** The Portworx service restarts now gracefully and in a timely fashion, stopping active Objectstore uploads. |
|PWX-13542| Portworx running on vSphere using cloud drives fails to come up when it cannot find the path of the attached disk.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx will fail to initialize on the node when it fails to find the device path of the attached disk. <br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx will now retry for up to 2 minutes to find the path of the attached disk. |
| PWX-13169 | Fixed counting of volume-attaches on the local node |

> | PWX-15060 | This change fixes an issue in which core dumps were generated while restoring incremental backups created under a folder in the bucket. Portworx does not support placing folders under buckets for cloudsnaps. |

Author: @talakad please format

<issue description - 1 to 2 sentences stating what the issue is at a high level>

User impact: <How the user experiences the bug/what they see when the bug happens, i.e. user won’t see volumes update, upgrades will fail, etc.>

Resolution: <what changed, particularly if Portworx now works differently or requires different input from the user in some way as a result of the change>

Reviewer 3: @talakad ??

Reviewer 10: PWX-15060 | PX may generate cores when user tries to restore an incremental backup that was taken under folder within a bucket. Portworx does not support uploading backups to a folder within the bucket.
User impact:  Px may generate cores till the restore is stopped
Resolution: This change fixes the above issue and returns error to the user rather than generating cores.

| PWX-12611 | When using the auto-disk provisioning feature with auto-scaling groups, if the minimum size of an ASG group is zero, and the user specifies a value for the `maxStorageNodesPerZone` parameter, then Portworx overwrites the user-provided value with zero .<br/><br/>**User impact:** Portworx was overriding the user-provided value for the `maxStorageNodesPerZone` parameter with zero, based on the ASG group value. This was causing all new nodes to come up as storage nodes, ignoring the user-provided max storage nodes value.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** When the ASG group minimum value is set to zero, and the user provides a different value, Portworx now does not overwrite the value, honoring the user-provided maxStorageNodesPerZone value.|

> | PWX-11338 | With the PX-Cache feature enabled, if any single caching drive goes offline, the entire storage node goes down. |

Author: @sulakshm same deal here

Reviewer 3: User impact :Portworx pools become inaccessible due to single drive failures 
Resolution : Portworx now identifies the pool which should be made offline to sustain the failure of single drive.
